# Citizen Science Web Application

This project contains a Python based web server that provides a JSON API to the data required for
the application.  You can run the Python server with the command:

```
python main.py
``` 
This requires Python 3 and the bottle library, I've included bottle with this project
so you should not need to download anything other than Python 3. 

The server will listen for requests on [http://localhost:8010](http://localhost:8010/). 

The main page of the application is generated by the Python code from the file `index.html` 
in the `views` folder.

Static files are served from the `static` folder.  You will see sub-folders for CSS, Javascript
and images.

I have provided a few Javascript files in the project:
* `main.js` is the main entry point and is referenced from the `index.html` file
* `model.js` contains the outline of the Model object and the required methods that you must implement
* `util.js` provides a utility function
* `views.js` is empty for you to add your view functions to

The `cypress` directory contains tests to be run with the [Cypress](https://cypress.io) testing tool.


## The API Server

The Python API server provides the following URLs serving JSON data:

* `/api/users` - GET returns a JSON array of user details
* `/api/users/<id>` - GET returns details of an individual user
* `/api/observations` - GET returns a JSON array of observation records
* `/api/observations` - POST adds a new observation record (required fields below)
* `/api/observations/<id>` - GET returns details of an individual observation
* `/api/reset` - GET request resets the database (for testing purposes)

The server also serves the Web Application with Static files. The static files contain JavaScript files, images for the application and CSS files

I have implemented the MVC(Model View Controller)as a software design pattern. 

# MVC software design pattern 

The Model.js file provides an interface to the web API and a local store of data that the application can refer to. This API generates two different events: "modelChanged" event when new data has been retrieved from the API and "observationAdded" event when a request to add a new observation returns. The Model class also sets the data and manipulates the data and stores in descending order according to the number of observation that a single user has added. This is shown by the leaderboard of the web application. The recent observations column is displayed by manipulating the observations data according to the timestamp in ascending order.

The Main.js file is the controller of the software design pattern.  This JavaScript file handles the user request. According to the links that the user clicks this file manipulates the Model and triggers different different events when a request is sent to this class. When the events are generated this class calls the functions in the views.js file. 

Views.js is the User Interface of the web application. It displays the information of the citizen science thorugh manipulating HTML. The leaderbord and the Recent observations columns are generated through the handlebars template. 

All the list of users and observations are also displayed by handlebar templetes. 






